Stronghold REPL (#447)
iotaledger/stronghold.rs: documentation/docs/how_tos/repl/repl.mdx

- repl
- client crate
---

# REPL
Stronghold features a simple read-evaluate print loop (REPL) to showcase basic operations from an interaction command shell-like environment. The REPL maintains a state of a running Stronghold instance to store secrets or configuration data. 

You can start REPL from a terminal inside the root folder of Stronghold by running the following command:

```shell
cargo run --example repl
```

> ### Avaiablable Commands
> 
> You can use the following commands:
> 
> 
> | Command      | Parameters                                                                                          | Description                                                                                                                    |
> |:-------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | help         | -                                                                                                   | Display a help message.                                                                                                        |
> | init         | < client_path >                                                                                     | Initializes the underlying Stronghold system.                                                                                  |
> | keygen       | < key_type > < vault_path > < record_path >                                                         | Generates a "ed25510" or "x25519" key at a location composed of "vault_path" and "record_path".                                |
> | backup       | < path_to_snapshot_location > < passphrase >                                                        | Writes the current Stronghold state to "path_to_snapshot_location" (a path) with "passphrase".                                 |
> | restore      | < path_to_snapshot_location > < passphrase >                                                        | Loads the current Stronghold state from "path_to_snapshot_location" (a path) with "passphrase".                                |
> | slip10gen    | < vault_path > < record_path >                                                                      |                                                                                                                                |
> | slip10derive | < chain > < vault_path_origin > < record_path_origin > < vault_path_derive > < record_path_derive > | Derives a new key from old location and stores it into the new location. The key will be derived from the provided chain code. |
> | mnemonic     | -                                                                                                   | Creates a BIP39 mnemonic and generates a seed.                                                                                 |
> | bip39restore | -                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                |
> | quit         | -                                                                                                   | Exits the REPL.                                                                                                                |
> | checkrecord  | < vault_path > < record_path >                                                                      | Checks a record inside the vault. The command will return `yes` if the record exists or `no` if it doesn't.                    |
> | checkvault   | < vault_path >                                                                                      | Checks for the presence of a vault.                                                                                            |
> 
> **Note:**
> Each command will show a short help message, if the entered command or parameters are incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available Commands

:::note Help Messages

Each command will show a short help message, if the entered command or parameters are incorrect.

:::
You can use the following commands:

| Command      | Parameters                                                                                | Description                                                                                                                    |
|:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| help         | -                                                                                         | Display a help message.                                                                                                        |
| init         | `client_path`                                                                             | Initializes the underlying Stronghold system.                                                                                  |
| keygen       | `key_type` `vault_path` `record_path`                                                     | Generates a "ed25510" or "x25519" key at a location composed of "vault_path" and "record_path".                                |
| backup       | `path_to_snapshot_location` `passphrase`                                                  | Writes the current Stronghold state to "path_to_snapshot_location" (a path) with "passphrase".                                 |
| restore      | `path_to_snapshot_location` `passphrase`                                                  | Loads the current Stronghold state from "path_to_snapshot_location" (a path) with "passphrase".                                |
| slip10gen    | `vault_path` `record_path`                                                                |                                                                                                                                |
| slip10derive | `chain` `vault_path_origin` `record_path_origin` `vault_path_derive` `record_path_derive` | Derives a new key from old location and stores it into the new location. The key will be derived from the provided chain code. |
| mnemonic     | -                                                                                         | Creates a BIP39 mnemonic and generates a seed.                                                                                 |
| bip39restore | -                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                |
| quit         | -                                                                                         | Exits the REPL.                                                                                                                |
| checkrecord  | `vault_path` `record_path`                                                                | Checks a record inside the vault. The command will return `yes` if the record exists or `no` if it doesn't.                    |
| checkvault   | `vault_path`                                                                              | Checks for the presence of a vault.                                                                                            |

```

Reviewer: Unless using < and > is a rust standard, I'd suggest moving to `` for params.

Author: sounds fair :)
